HELM-248: Document Filters (#614)
OpenNMS/opennms-helm: docs/modules/datasources/pages/entity_datasource.adoc

= Entities Datasource

You can use the Entities datasource to retrieve entity model objects (alarms and nodes) from OpenNMS.
For an example of the Entities datasource in use, see <<panel_configuration:dynamic-dashboard.adoc#pc-filter-panel, Create a Filter panel>>.

== Datasource queries

This datasource's behavior changes depending on the specified entity.
Attributes and values also change based on the entity type.

NOTE: The datasource allows only a single target.
Subsequent targets in the query editor are ignored.

[[ds-entity-template]]
== Template queries

You can pass a field name to the `attribute` variable to change the behavior of a template query.
This changes the field's display name.
If no `attribute` argument is specified, the query returns the entity's `id` attribute.

The `query` attribute's default value is `alarms()`, meaning it returns a list of alarm IDs.

=== alarms([attribute])

The `alarms()` function queries the OpenNMS alarms REST API.

=== locations()

The `locations()` query returns a list of available node locations.

> You can use this inside a `nodeFilter()` query to filter the number of nodes displayed by location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a variable with a `locations()` query and use that variable inside a `nodeFilter()` query to filter the number of nodes displayed by location.
```
